All right I'll come back.
So you might be wondering what is a variable.
Well variables like containers don't assume they you know pull it out later.
They can hold all sorts of things like numbers booleans and streams and a lot more.
We'll talk later.
OK I think that's that's enough of that for now.
So variables in Python are like variables in math so if you ever took algebra you probably saw equations
that had X's or wise or other letters interspersed inside the equations.
It's the same idea here.
So our variables hold the value and they have a name.
So those are the two key components.
So I like to think of them as sort of like jar's like a mason jar.
You put something in the jar and then you give it a name maybe a little piece of tape and a sharpie
to create a label.
So this jar says Colt's favorite color and this jar says berry jam and this one says I don't know tips
or whatever.
That's the name.
And then inside we have data and that's pretty much as far as that analogy goes.
So in Python mind this is what it looks like to create or assign a variable.
So this is how we initially tell Python hey I want a variable called X..
So that's the left part.
And I want to set it equal to 100 at the beginning.
So variables can change and we'll talk about that as well but they have a name on the left an equal
sign and then a value on the right.
And I did say this in the song if you didn't catch this they can be all sorts of data types.
We've only seen numbers so far.
So I'm talking about numbers but in a bit we'll see other types of data we can put in variables.
So we're not limited to numbers.
And then we have a second variable assignment down here Khaleesi Mother of Dragons equals 1.
If you're wondering that's a game of thrones character if you haven't seen given Thrones it wouldn't
start it now because you'll get distracted and never finish this course.
Anyway the key thing is that we have a name on the left and we're sitting it equal to some corresponding
value.
And then of course we can recall those values.
Otherwise variables wouldn't be very useful.
So here you could print Khaleesi mother of dragons which is one plus X which is one hundred and that
results in one hundred and one.
So this is a silly example for a random slide of course.
You're not going to be doing things like this but variables are really really useful.
You'll use them in every single program we create from here on out for a couple of reasons.
One they can make your code more legible and reusable.
You know we might have a really long piece of text or a really long number like pi that we don't want
to have to type out every time.
But more importantly most of our data is not static.
A lot of it changes.
It might depend on user input which we'll see later on.
So we might not know exactly what x is.
So we know it's it's 100 here but maybe we're working with a user's password.
We don't know what that is.
So we have a variable called Password and it's equal to whatever the user typed in.
And then we do something with password maybe we check it against our database or something.
And the idea is that it's not up to us.
And so our code needs to be able to work with dynamic data.
OK.
So to wrap this slide up variables always assigned with the variable name on the left and the value
on the right of the equal sign.
And this again is a variable assignment.
So we have to tell Python hey I want a variable called X set it equal to 100.
If we don't assign it first we can't use it later.
It will cause a problem.
And in just a minute I'll show you that.
So I'm going to hop over to my terminal and really quickly open up Python 3.
OK.
So I'm going to define a variable I'll call numb of cat and let's say that I am crazy and I have ninety
nine cats.
Now what I want to show you.
Yes we can recall Gnome of cat and in the Python interpreter it will show me 99 but in a regular bit
of Python code in a file like a python file.
If I just wrote the line number of cats is not going to printed out I would need to actually have a
print number of cats.
And you don't really see a difference here but I'll show you later in the video that there is a significant
difference.
OK.
So by just recalling the of cats and let's say multiplying by two I get 198 but important to notice
that number of cats is not 198 itself.
It's ninety nine.
So all that I'm doing is saying give me what the current value of number of cats is and multiply by
two.
But I'm never saying change no cat.
So that's where we get to the next thing which is variable re-assignment.
So variables can be assigned to other variables.
So here's an example.
Python is awesome.
Equals 100.
And I can say just another variable equals Python is awesome.
And so then at this point just another variable is equal to 100.
So variables can also be reassigned at a time.
So I could change Python this awesome to 1 3 3 7.
So it's no longer equal to 100.
I've changed it to 1 3 3 7 and we can also assign variables at the same time as other variables.
So here's an example.
And the syntax might be a little weird but we separate things by commas.
So all comma at comma once equals five and 10 come a 15.
Well all is five at 10 and once it's 15.
Now I only recommend doing this if the variables make sense to be assigned together.
So if they're just arbitrary.
I mean these are all arbitrary examples that don't really make sense but I would only do them in one
line if they had something to do with one another.
OK so let's hop back over here.
Now I have no of cats and if I wanted to I could update it at any point so I could manually do it by
saying of cats equals 198.
And now if I look at number of cats it's 198.
OK.
But the other thing I want to show you.
I'm going to reset it back to 99 is let's let's say one of my cats passed away.
Actually I don't want to upset anyone let's say that I'm giving my cat a kitten to my sister as a Christmas
gift.
Now of course he goes ninety nine.
Well I can also say number of cats equals number of cat minus one.
It's equal to the current number of cats minus one.
And now what does number of cats.
It's 98.
So we can also do something like speak of variable friends and I don't know.
My friends could start at zero I have no friends.
But then maybe I decide all my cats are friends so I could say none of friends equals none of cats so
I'm assigning I'm reassigning friends first of all but I'm using the value of name of cats to update
friends of cats is 98.
So right now friends is also 98.
And I'll leave it at that for now.
You'll see us use variables all the time.
So if you still have a couple of questions about them we'll probably answer them as we go.
But they're really fundamental.
Again it's a way to store data with a name and that's pretty much it.